README.md, before:

# NDN Operator
![GitHub Tag](https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/ndn-operator/ndn-operator?filter=v*&style=flat&label=version)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/github/ndn-operator/ndn-operator/graph/badge.svg?token=AD83S8LI12)](https://codecov.io/github/ndn-operator/ndn-operator)
![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/ndn-operator/ndn-operator)
[![Rust Report Card](https://rust-reportcard.xuri.me/badge/github.com/ndn-operator/ndn-operator)](https://rust-reportcard.xuri.me/report/github.com/ndn-operator/ndn-operator)
![GitHub Actions Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/ndn-operator/ndn-operator/docker-push.yaml)

[![CRD Reference](https://img.shields.io/badge/CRD%20Reference-blue?logo=kubernetes&logoColor=white&color=%23326CE5&link=https%3A%2F%2Fdoc.crds.dev%2Fgithub.com%2Fndn-operator%2Fndn-operator)](https://doc.crds.dev/github.com/ndn-operator/ndn-operator)

**NDN Operator** is a Kubernetes operator that integrates [Named Data Networking](https://github.com/named-data) into your Kubernetes cluster

## Install
```shell
helm repo add ndn-operator https://ndn-operator.github.io/ndn-operator
helm repo update
helm install ndn-operator ndn-operator/ndn-operator \
    --namespace ndn-operator --create-namespace
```
## Create secured ndn network

### Namespace
```shell
kubectl create ns mynetwork
```
### Self-signed certificate
```
kubectl apply --namespace mynetwork \
    -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ndn-operator/ndn-operator/refs/heads/main/examples/secure/self-signed-cert.yaml
```
### Secured network
```shell
kubectl apply --namespace mynetwork \
    -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ndn-operator/ndn-operator/refs/heads/main/examples/secure/network.yaml
```
### Pingserver
Producers and consumers may live in different k8s namespaces from the network, and from each other
* Producer:
```shell
kubectl apply \
    -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ndn-operator/ndn-operator/refs/heads/main/examples/workloads/producer-pod.yaml
```
* Consumer
```shell
kubectl apply \
    -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ndn-operator/ndn-operator/refs/heads/main/examples/workloads/consumer-job.yaml
```

## Architecture
NDN Operator has two main services:
* Controller. It utilizes DaemonSets to configure and run `ndnd` on each node
* Injector. It uses mutating webhooks to mount ndnd socket into every pod with label `named-data.net/inject: "true"`
```mermaid
flowchart BT
  subgraph N[Network]
  direction LR
    subgraph r_A[Node A]
    direction TB
      app_a1[Container 1]:::dotted <--unix socket--> ndnd_a1[NDN daemon]
    end
    subgraph r_B[Node B]
    direction TB
      app_b1[Container 2]:::dotted <--unix socket--> ndnd_b1[NDN daemon]
    end
    subgraph r_C[Node C]
    direction TB
      app_c1[Container 3]:::dotted <--unix socket--> ndnd_c1[NDN daemon]
    end
    r_A <--udp--> r_B <--udp--> r_C
  end
  s1([K8S Service]):::dotted --tcp--> N
  s2([K8S Service]):::dotted --ws--> N
  classDef dotted stroke-dasharray: 5 5
```

## Features
* Multiple networks per cluster
* TLS management for ndnd
* Multi-cluster support

## Roadmap
1. Basic functionality ✅
    * `Network` resource that creates a simple unsecured network
    * Pod annotations, assigning it to a particular network
1. TLS ✅
    * Self-signed root CA
    * External Certificates (from Testbed)
1. Advanced use
    * Expose NDN faces outside ✅
    * K8S resources to manage NDN faces, strategies and links 🚧

Commit message:

feat(controllers): cli flags for enabling controllers

README.md, after:

# NDN Operator
![GitHub Tag](https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/ndn-operator/ndn-operator?filter=v*&style=flat&label=version)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/github/ndn-operator/ndn-operator/graph/badge.svg?token=AD83S8LI12)](https://codecov.io/github/ndn-operator/ndn-operator)
![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/ndn-operator/ndn-operator)
[![Rust Report Card](https://rust-reportcard.xuri.me/badge/github.com/ndn-operator/ndn-operator)](https://rust-reportcard.xuri.me/report/github.com/ndn-operator/ndn-operator)
![GitHub Actions Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/ndn-operator/ndn-operator/docker-push.yaml)

[![CRD Reference](https://img.shields.io/badge/CRD%20Reference-blue?logo=kubernetes&logoColor=white&color=%23326CE5&link=https%3A%2F%2Fdoc.crds.dev%2Fgithub.com%2Fndn-operator%2Fndn-operator)](https://doc.crds.dev/github.com/ndn-operator/ndn-operator)

**NDN Operator** is a Kubernetes operator that integrates [Named Data Networking](https://github.com/named-data) into your Kubernetes cluster

## Install
```shell
helm repo add ndn-operator https://ndn-operator.github.io/ndn-operator
helm repo update
helm install ndn-operator ndn-operator/ndn-operator \
    --namespace ndn-operator --create-namespace
```
## Create secured ndn network

### Namespace
```shell
kubectl create ns mynetwork
```
### Self-signed certificate
```
kubectl apply --namespace mynetwork \
    -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ndn-operator/ndn-operator/refs/heads/main/examples/secure/self-signed-cert.yaml
```
### Secured network
```shell
kubectl apply --namespace mynetwork \
    -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ndn-operator/ndn-operator/refs/heads/main/examples/secure/network.yaml
```
### Pingserver
Producers and consumers may live in different k8s namespaces from the network, and from each other
* Producer:
```shell
kubectl apply \
    -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ndn-operator/ndn-operator/refs/heads/main/examples/workloads/producer-pod.yaml
```
* Consumer
```shell
kubectl apply \
    -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ndn-operator/ndn-operator/refs/heads/main/examples/workloads/consumer-job.yaml
```

## Architecture
NDN Operator has two main services:
* Controller. It utilizes DaemonSets to configure and run `ndnd` on each node
* Injector. It uses mutating webhooks to mount ndnd socket into every pod with label `named-data.net/inject: "true"`
```mermaid
flowchart BT
  subgraph N[Network]
  direction LR
    subgraph r_A[Node A]
    direction TB
      app_a1[Container 1]:::dotted <--unix socket--> ndnd_a1[NDN daemon]
    end
    subgraph r_B[Node B]
    direction TB
      app_b1[Container 2]:::dotted <--unix socket--> ndnd_b1[NDN daemon]
    end
    subgraph r_C[Node C]
    direction TB
      app_c1[Container 3]:::dotted <--unix socket--> ndnd_c1[NDN daemon]
    end
    r_A <--udp--> r_B <--udp--> r_C
  end
  s1([K8S Service]):::dotted --tcp--> N
  s2([K8S Service]):::dotted --ws--> N
  classDef dotted stroke-dasharray: 5 5
```

## Features
* Multiple networks per cluster
* TLS management for ndnd
* Multi-cluster support

## Controller runtime flags
The main controller binary (`ndn-operator`, also packaged as `ndnctl`) now accepts flags to decide which reconciler loops should run. When no flags are provided, every controller is enabled. Provide one or more of the following to run a subset:

```shell
ndn-operator --nw --rt      # Run network and router controllers only
ndn-operator --cert         # Run certificate controller only
ndn-operator --nl --pod     # Run neighbor-link and pod-sync controllers
```

## Roadmap
1. Basic functionality ✅
    * `Network` resource that creates a simple unsecured network
    * Pod annotations, assigning it to a particular network
1. TLS ✅
    * Self-signed root CA
    * External Certificates (from Testbed)
1. Advanced use
    * Expose NDN faces outside ✅
    * K8S resources to manage NDN faces, strategies and links 🚧
